>> Brian Holt: Code splitting is this
idea that you don't need all of your code
upfront to run all your application,
right?
If I have a big single page application I
don't need 100% of the code loaded upfront
for everything to work.
So that means I can differ loading
some of that code to later so
that I can load that web page faster.
This is really, really key, particularly
if you have a large scale applications
that you don't wanna load everything
upfront that doesn't make sense.
So a big way you can cut down your initial
bundle size is by doing code splitting.
So this is a big performance optimization.
So we get to identify to parcel or
to webpack or
whatever bundler you are using
points that it can split out.
And by doing that, it'll make
multiple different JavaScript files.
And then whenever we go
to load those files,
it'll actually go behind the scenes,
load those extra JavaScript files.
And then once they're ready,
it'll load your application.
So the first thing I need you to do,
actually you can stop your service
quick and say, npm install.
And we're gonna install a library
called react-loadable, like that.
>> Brian Holt: react-loadable is
a component that basically you
provide to it,
the component you want to load and
the component to show while it's loading.
As well you can also define a component
to show if there's an error.
So it's really, really convenient
if we're doing code splitting.
So let's go back and
run our service again, npm run dev.
>> Brian Holt: And we are gonna go
into app.js from the application here.
So app.js, this one right here.
>> Brian Holt: And we're gonna show
you how to do code-splitting by route,
which is kinda the easiest one to do,
right?
If I'm on the home page,
I don't need to load the about page.
Or in our case here, if I'm on
the results page, I don't necessarily
need to load the details page,
until the user actually clicks on it.
So what I'm going to do here, is I'm
actually just going to delete details.
The way that the bundler knows
which routes to split out, sorry,
which components to include,
which modules to include in your code
as it reads these input statements.
So if I want to split out details, I have
to make sure that it doesn't import it at
the top or
else we have done nothing useful, right?
But now we need to import, we'll do
it here underneath the petfinder-client,
import loadable from react-loadable, okay?
This is a function that we
provide a loader to it,
some sort of loading component.
And then it will give us back
a component that we can use instead of
the one that's coming.
So above the class here, what I want
you to do is I want you to say,
const loadable, it's a function
that we provide an object to.
Sorry, const loadableDetails = loadable,
like that.
So the first thing we need to give
it is something to load, right?
So we wanna load the details route.
So we're gonna say loader:,
and this needs to be some sort
of function that's going to run
once it's actually been invoked.
So we're gonna give it a arrow function
that's going to return some sort of
promise, right?
The promise of the details
route being loaded.
So let me introduce to
you to something called
the import function import('./Details').
So now we just have the this
import statement at the top.
This isn't a function in invocation,
this is a module declaration, right?
This is static, you can't use the
variables up here or anything like that.
This is static, so you can statically and
analyze your bundles.
Over this, this is a function, right?
So it's dynamic.
Whenever I use this component,
this loadableDetails component that I
have constructed, it's going to call
this function that I've provided here.
And this function calls
the import function.
What import does is a dynamic loader,
right?
So parcel goes through, sees this, and
it's going to split out details
automatically into a separate bundle.
And parcel knows how to load stuff
off from your project, right?
So it does all that wiring up for you,
it's all kinda little bit magical,
if we're being honest, okay?
Okay, and
the next thing we have to provide here
is a loading component called loading.
Right now, I'm gonna say return
<h1>loading split out code.
As you might imagine this might be more
sophisticated, it might be like a loading
spinner or something better than just
an h1 that says it's loading, right?
So now,
I have this thing called loadableDetails.
And this is a component that
I can use inside of my code.
So down here, instead of having details,
which should be underlined right now,
right?
I'm gonna say,
loadableDetails.
So the first thing I want you to notice,
let's just restart, or clear, npm run.
You don't have to do this,
I'm just gonna do it to show you.
It should tell you that it
split out a different route.
Nope, it doesn't, webpack does.
But in any case,
if we go back to our application here.
So let's refresh and
let's watch the network tab here, and
we'll just watch the JavaScript files.
So notice I loaded here App.js, right?
That's our main bundle.
That's our main entry point
into our application.
But as soon as I click into
one of these animals here,
notice that it's gonna load another file.
This is another JavaScript file
that it loaded from my application.
So that's pretty cool, right?
We didn't really have to do very much.
We just had to identify a point,
just like this point can be split out,
this component can be split out.
Here's what you do while it's loading and
here's what to do when it's loaded.
Pretty compelling, right?
I think it is.